supplements. Let's talk a little bit
about supplements. I get asked all the
time what I use. I can't really tell
people what to use in whatever country
they're in because there are different
regulations. What I can say is you want
to look for something that you trust and
it's really clean. And I say that
standing here with lots of products by
one company in front of me, Momentous. I
really like their products, not
necessarily because they are third party
tested. They're really clean and I
really appreciate the ethos that goes
into making them, but I partner with
them and I agree with them because of
their advocacy behind the scenes. We got
in front of Congress to talk about
women's health and how there has been
different policy changes for collegiic
athletes in their health. So, yes, I'm
going to show Momentous because I love
the people behind the company. I love
the advocacy behind the company and
they're really good, clean products. The
ones that I use the most from them is
their protein powder. Either their
plant-based or their unflavored whey.
This is their 100% plant protein. Really
mixable. It's great. I love their
creatine. So I always talk about
creatine and looking for Crea Pure. So
we look at creatine and why we want to
use it. So creatine is a natural thing
that occurs in the body. So we go
through creatine whenever we have fast
energetics. So you think about the first
0 to 20 seconds of any kind of energy
system within the body, brain, heart,
muscle, gut. And we see that creatine
monohydrate is so important for health,
especially brain health. And we hear
about it from a bodybuilding background
where we have to use 5 g twice a day
with carbohydrate to really boost the
amount of creatine that's in the muscle.
But that's not what I'm talking about.
I'm talking about 3 to five grams daily.
You can take a teaspoon and stir in your
coffee because it's just a very easy
powder that's really mixable. Doesn't
taste like anything. Takes about three
weeks to fully saturate. But we see from
RCTs or randomized control trials for
women that using creatine can help bring
women out of an anxiety or a depressive
state much faster than just using
something like a serotonin reuptake
inhibitor. We can look at Crea Vitalis
website, creatine for health website.
They're both one and the same. And it
has a list of all the most recent
publications on creatine for the health
aspects, not just muscle performance.
Collagen, I can't use collagen, but I
wanted to bring it up. My husband uses
it for joints and other structural
aspects, but as a plant-based
individual, I don't use collagen. There
is a confusion between collagen protein
and something like a normal protein
powder. Collagen protein is not what we
think of when we're using post exercise
protein because it's a structural
protein. It does not go into the
quantification of your dietary protein.
So if we're looking at collagen, there's
two kinds. We have a native collagen and
a peptide. A native collagen when
ingested has an interaction with your
immune system to reduce the inflammation
and the signaling to degrade your
cartilage. We see peptides are small
bits of that whole collagen that are
actually digested and those small bits
of peptides go to the target tissue and
are used to regenerate some of the
cartilage but also to trigger a response
to stop degrading the cartilage. So,
it's a structural protein. If you want
good hair, you want good skin, you want
good nails, you want good joints, you're
going for collagen. If you want muscle,
muscle protein synthesis, nerve, bone,
all of the things for dietary protein,
you go for a protein supplement that is
plant-based or whey isolate. The other
must-haves really is an omega-3. It's
really important for women who are super
active. If we look at a cellular aspect
of increasing our oxidative and
antioxidative status, omega-3s are
really essential for brain health,
cellular health, and so it's one of my
go-tos for sure. And then we get to
adaptogens. These are two that I use on
the regular. I use rodeiola and
ashagandha. So I'll take a step back and
tell you what an adaptogen is. An
adaptogen is a plant compound that has
an effect in the body that we don't
normally see with a pharmaceutical. The
best way I can explain it is if we look
at seaweed and we see seaweed changes
different colors. When it is in a dark
cold part of the ocean, it has a higher
protein content and it in itself is
dark. When that same plant comes up
closer to the surface in the summer
months, it becomes lighter in color and
has a reduced protein composition. The
reason for that is it's adapting to the
environment. So a plant in itself can
adapt to different situations to
different stressors. So there are
certain plants that grow in really
environmentally challenging conditions.
So we can look at MKA, we can look at
ashagandha, we can look at rodeiola.
They adapt to the harsh environment that
it's in. And because it can adapt, that
same compound has a response to our
human stress system. So if we look at
something like rodeiola, it has
multi-factoral
effect on the body. We can see that it
modulates estrogen for perry and
post-menopausal women. So that means it
either increases the sensitivity of your
receptors or it decreases the
sensitivity based on what your own
individual body needs. It also has an
effect on cortisol. It modulates your
cortisol receptors as well. So, it helps
with that tired but wired feeling by
dropping cortisol's effect on the body
so that you can get into more of a
parasympathetic state. When I'm
traveling with jet lag, I use it to help
me get into a parasympathetic state for
sleeping so that it can help my body
reset its circadian rhythm and get me
out of a jet lag state. With ashagandha,
it's an overall stress reducer because
it has a direct effect on cortisol
cortisol responses, but it also has an
effect on thyroid. So, it does have a
contraindication for individuals who are
using any kind of thyroid medication
because again its adaptogenic response
is it understands how stressed your body
is from a metabolic as well as an
autonomic nervous system. So, it can
adjust your thyroid hormone sensitivity,
but it also affects cortisol and how
your body responds to cortisol. So, it's
another one if you're going into a
highly stressed situation or you're
living a highly stressed life, it helps
modulate that stress to reduce that
overarching tired but wired feeling. So,
that would be the cadre of supplements
that I use on the regular. And when
we're looking at all of our individual
basis of when do we use supplements,
they are actually that a supplement. We
want to look at real food first, but
sometimes there are holes in our diet
where we need to fill and that's where
some supplementation can come into play.
Or it might be that we don't want to go
onto a true westernized pharmaceutical
so that we look to use adaptogens to
help modulate some of the effects that a
pharmaceutical would. But again, it's an
individual journey. It's an individual
basis. I'm just sharing with what I use
and working with companies that I trust.
So, thanks for watching and I know
you're going to have a multitude of
questions about supplements. So, if you
drop a comment and have a question about
a supplement, we'll try to get to it as
fast as we can and give you some insight
of where to go to find more information
about clean supplements and what ones
actually work for women because again,
there's not a lot of research out there
that shows there's efficacy for
everything for women. So, again, thanks
for watching and drop a comment here and
there.